README.md, before:

# VectorLM
## Installation
Clone the repository and create a new Python virtual environment. Note that the package is tested with Python >= 3.10.

We need to install the CUDA 11.8 wheel of PyTorch because it now ships with CUDA 12 (Vector GPUs are currently on CUDA 11).

```bash
pip install torch --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118
pip install .
```

It is heavily recommended that you use Flash Attention-2, please follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention).

## Introduction

VectorLM is a training framework built upon HuggingFace models and PyTorch Fully Sharded Data Parallelism. It is targeted at largely simplifying the workflow to setup distributed schemes while training **medium-sized** models in **resource-constrained** environments. This is especially relevant to clusters where powerful GPUs are available, but are bottlenecked by interconnectivity. There are two goals of this light-weight framework:
* Use simple sharding strategies. FSDP is a great option for medium-sized model training. It is well maintained by the PyTorch team.
* Employ several optimization techniques to make scaling to larger models possible whilst minimizing memory usage and communication volume. As a result, we are able to efficiently dense finetune LLMs of sizes up to 13B parameters on the Vector cluster.

<details>
<summary><b>What is FSDP?</b></summary>
Also known as ZeRO - Stage 3 sharding, it is a purely data-parallel training scheme built similar to Distributed Data Parallel, except it evenly shards optimizer states and model parameters as well within worker process groups. A good introduction can be found <a href="https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/15/open-source/fsdp/">here</a>.
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>What is VectorLM not for?</b></summary>
Our framework is designed for lightweight operations and is not intended for training very large models. It's primarily focused on facilitating Vector researchers in training moderately-sized models (on the order of 13B parameters) more efficiently. For very large model training setups requiring 3D distributed training strategies, we suggest exploring specialized frameworks like Megatron-LM and DeepSpeed, which are better equipped for such demands.
</details>

## Global Configuration
The central configuration that is used across data preprocessing, training, and dataset loading is under [`configs/config.yaml`](configs/config.yaml). All arguments, as well as recommendations, are documented under [`docs/config.md`](docs/config.md).

## Data Preprocessing

We provide a script for data preprocessing [`preprocess_data.py`](preprocess_data.py). This converts a text dataset into the same format used for model pretraining. We refrain from providing a script that prepares an instruction finetuning dataset due to different models requiring unique formatting. We also provide options for packing datasets. For more information, please consult the config documentation under [`docs/config.md`](docs/config.md).

## Training

We implement several training optimizations that can be reviewed under [`docs/training_optimizations.md`](docs/training_optimizations.md). All of them are necessary to achieve a high throughput and minimize memory usage and GPU communication as much as possible. It is recommended to familiarize with these.

### Main Classes

* [`Dataset`](vectorlm/utils/data_utils.py): It loads the training and test sets as processed by data processing script above. It also sets the dataloaders and shards them across devices.
* [`Trainer`](vectorlm/utils/trainer.py): The main trainer class. It contains the model, optimizer, LR scheduler, and dataloaders. It also performs the training and evaluation steps as well as state checkpointing.

### Example: Llama-2

We have provided an example script to show what a regular workflow would look like for the user. It assumes a preprocessed dataset has already been created. The [`examples/launch.sh`](examples/launch.sh) script begins dense finetuning a Llama-2 7B chat model sharded across a node of 4x A100-80GB GPUs. With the Python environment activated, this can be launched using `sbatch launch.sh`. We also provide a script to launch the same training run in a multinode setting across two A100 nodes at [`examples/launch_multinode.sh`](examples/launch_multinode.sh). Please note that hybrid sharding strategies need to be employed as you scale to multinode settings to minimize communication bottlenecks. More information regarding this can be found in [`docs/config.md`](docs/config.md).

# Contributors
Adil Asif, Ziwen Han, John Willes

LLM Infrastructure Team, Vector Institute.

Commit message:

added a note for the final model save

README.md, after:

# VectorLM
## Installation
Clone the repository and create a new Python virtual environment. Note that the package is tested with Python >= 3.10.

We need to install the CUDA 11.8 wheel of PyTorch because it now ships with CUDA 12 (Vector GPUs are currently on CUDA 11).

```bash
pip install torch --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118
pip install .
```

It is heavily recommended that you use Flash Attention-2, please follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention).

## Introduction

VectorLM is a training framework built upon HuggingFace models and PyTorch Fully Sharded Data Parallelism. It is targeted at largely simplifying the workflow to setup distributed schemes while training **medium-sized** models in **resource-constrained** environments. This is especially relevant to clusters where powerful GPUs are available, but are bottlenecked by interconnectivity. There are two goals of this light-weight framework:
* Use simple sharding strategies. FSDP is a great option for medium-sized model training. It is well maintained by the PyTorch team.
* Employ several optimization techniques to make scaling to larger models possible whilst minimizing memory usage and communication volume. As a result, we are able to efficiently dense finetune LLMs of sizes up to 13B parameters on the Vector cluster.

<details>
<summary><b>What is FSDP?</b></summary>
Also known as ZeRO - Stage 3 sharding, it is a purely data-parallel training scheme built similar to Distributed Data Parallel, except it evenly shards optimizer states and model parameters as well within worker process groups. A good introduction can be found <a href="https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/15/open-source/fsdp/">here</a>.
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>What is VectorLM not for?</b></summary>
Our framework is designed for lightweight operations and is not intended for training very large models. It's primarily focused on facilitating Vector researchers in training moderately-sized models (on the order of 13B parameters) more efficiently. For very large model training setups requiring 3D distributed training strategies, we suggest exploring specialized frameworks like Megatron-LM and DeepSpeed, which are better equipped for such demands.
</details>

## Global Configuration
The central configuration that is used across data preprocessing, training, and dataset loading is under [`configs/config.yaml`](configs/config.yaml). All arguments, as well as recommendations, are documented under [`docs/config.md`](docs/config.md).

## Data Preprocessing

We provide a script for data preprocessing [`preprocess_data.py`](preprocess_data.py). This converts a text dataset into the same format used for model pretraining. We refrain from providing a script that prepares an instruction finetuning dataset due to different models requiring unique formatting. We also provide options for packing datasets. For more information, please consult the config documentation under [`docs/config.md`](docs/config.md).

## Training

We implement several training optimizations that can be reviewed under [`docs/training_optimizations.md`](docs/training_optimizations.md). All of them are necessary to achieve a high throughput and minimize memory usage and GPU communication as much as possible. It is recommended to familiarize with these.

### Main Classes

* [`Dataset`](vectorlm/utils/data_utils.py): It loads the training and test sets as processed by data processing script above. It also sets the dataloaders and shards them across devices.
* [`Trainer`](vectorlm/utils/trainer.py): The main trainer class. It contains the model, optimizer, LR scheduler, and dataloaders. It also performs the training and evaluation steps as well as state checkpointing.

### Example: Llama-2

We have provided an example script to show what a regular workflow would look like for the user. It assumes a preprocessed dataset has already been created. The [`examples/launch.sh`](examples/launch.sh) script begins dense finetuning a Llama-2 7B chat model sharded across a node of 4x A100-80GB GPUs. With the Python environment activated, this can be launched using `sbatch launch.sh`. We also provide a script to launch the same training run in a multinode setting across two A100 nodes at [`examples/launch_multinode.sh`](examples/launch_multinode.sh). Please note that hybrid sharding strategies need to be employed as you scale to multinode settings to minimize communication bottlenecks. More information regarding this can be found in [`docs/config.md`](docs/config.md).

At the end of training, a consolidated model will be saved under your output directory as a `.bin` file. You can simply just run [`vectorlm/utils/convert_to_hf.py`](vectorlm/utils/convert_to_hf.py) to convert it to the regular HuggingFace model format. The script uses the main config file to determine save locations.

# Contributors
Adil Asif, Ziwen Han, John Willes

LLM Infrastructure Team, Vector Institute.
