docs/reference_throughput.md, before:

# Reference Throughput

We've benchmarked VectorLM on the Vaughan cluster for a number of model architectures across a variety of node configurations.
In experiments labelled as LoRA, we set hidden dimension to 8. During the testing, the NVIDIA driver version was 525.105.17, CUDA Runtime 12.1.105, and torch 2.2.2.

For consistency, we use a batch size of 8 and the maximum context length that the pre-trained LLM supports, capped at 65536. Note that especially for smaller models, it might be possible to further increase throughput by switching to a larger batch size.

Entries that read NaN represent combinations where the node configuration does not have enough GPU memory for the training run to complete. An exception is gemma-2b, which currently does not support full-rank FSDP fine-tuning.

All values in the table below represent the median training throughput in tokens per second across all training steps, aggregated across all GPU devices.

|                                      | Llama-2-13b-hf | Llama-2-7b-hf | Mistral-7B-v0.1 | Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1 | gemma-2b | opt-350m |
| :----------------------------------- | -------------: | ------------: | --------------: | -------------------------: | -------: | -------: |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x1 |        424.726 |       570.818 |         528.747 |                        nan |      nan |  780.045 |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x2 |        660.355 |        919.19 |         794.566 |                    275.459 |      nan |  1227.67 |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x4 |         1309.4 |       1744.39 |         1577.09 |                    817.162 |      nan |  2181.46 |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A40 x1            |            nan |       47.6435 |         107.503 |                        nan |      nan |  666.881 |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A40 x2            |            nan |       313.074 |         322.624 |                        nan |      nan |  854.672 |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A40 x4            |         345.96 |       570.977 |         553.658 |                        nan |      nan |  1765.49 |
| (full_rank) Tesla T4 x1              |            nan |           nan |             nan |                        nan |      nan |   475.51 |
| (full_rank) Tesla T4 x2              |            nan |           nan |             nan |                        nan |      nan |  768.008 |
| (full_rank) Tesla T4 x4              |            nan |           nan |             nan |                        nan |      nan |   1383.6 |
| (full_rank) Tesla T4 x8              |            nan |           nan |             nan |                        nan |      nan |  2414.68 |
| (lora) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x1      |        560.167 |       646.801 |         525.802 |                        nan |  851.678 |  859.379 |
| (lora) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x2      |        871.993 |       1157.17 |         1105.68 |                    239.431 |  1724.57 |  1463.82 |
| (lora) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x4      |        1783.53 |       2091.03 |         2150.06 |                    1309.74 |  2719.24 |  2381.01 |
| (lora) NVIDIA A40 x1                 |        272.931 |       435.386 |         336.507 |                        nan |  983.256 |  652.611 |
| (lora) NVIDIA A40 x2                 |        105.442 |       457.183 |         356.263 |                        nan |  725.723 |  1136.17 |
| (lora) NVIDIA A40 x4                 |         543.22 |       715.416 |         642.642 |                        nan |  1302.62 |  1647.57 |
| (lora) Tesla T4 x1                   |            nan |           nan |             nan |                        nan |  148.272 |  571.471 |
| (lora) Tesla T4 x2                   |            nan |       101.126 |         102.859 |                        nan |  256.534 |  811.159 |
| (lora) Tesla T4 x4                   |            nan |       188.575 |         190.127 |                        nan |  495.755 |  1506.05 |
| (lora) Tesla T4 x8                   |        196.709 |       372.375 |         351.361 |                        nan |   897.81 |  2945.86 |

Commit message:

Add revised benchmarking logic and results (#9)
* Revised estimation of batch count, directly retrieving from len(train_dataloader).
Deleted unused timer_handle argument in Trainer.
Revised handling of "max_seq_len" override in benchmarking.
Added support for automatic switching between  lora and full-rank sharding scheme in benchmarking.

* Revised handling of unspecified max_seq_length.
Added llama-3 to benchmark model_list.

* Benchmarking: Revised benchmark script to ensure consistent per-device train batch size.

* Benchmarking: replaced trainer.step with trainer.train_step to avoid eval overhead in benchmarking.
Revised benchmark parsing logic; display optimal batch size for each context width value.

* Benchmarking: Updated reference throughput based on updated logic.

* Benchmarking: Updated reference throughput descriptions.

docs/reference_throughput.md, after:

# Reference Throughput

We've benchmarked VectorLM on the Vaughan cluster for a number of model architectures across a variety of node configurations.
In experiments labelled as LoRA, we set hidden dimension to 8. Below are version numbers of the testing environment:

```bash
$ pip3 freeze|grep -E "(torch|flash-attn|nvidia)"
flash-attn==2.5.8
nvidia-cublas-cu12==12.1.3.1
nvidia-cuda-cupti-cu12==12.1.105
nvidia-cuda-nvrtc-cu12==12.1.105
nvidia-cuda-runtime-cu12==12.1.105
nvidia-cudnn-cu12==8.9.2.26
nvidia-cufft-cu12==11.0.2.54
nvidia-curand-cu12==10.3.2.106
nvidia-cusolver-cu12==11.4.5.107
nvidia-cusparse-cu12==12.1.0.106
nvidia-ml-py==12.550.52
nvidia-nccl-cu12==2.19.3
nvidia-nvjitlink-cu12==12.3.101
nvidia-nvtx-cu12==12.1.105
torch==2.2.1
```

For each context width and hardware configuration, we experiment with a per-device batch size of 2, 4, and 8. In the table below, we report the batch size that maximizes training throughput. All values in the table represent the median training throughput in tokens/second across all training steps, aggregated across all GPU devices.

|                                      | Meta-Llama-3-8B (2048) | Meta-Llama-3-8B (4096) | Meta-Llama-3-8B (8192) |
| :----------------------------------- | :--------------------- | :--------------------- | :--------------------- |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x1 | 3550.48 (batch: 8)     | 3461.64 (batch: 4)     | 3204.21 (batch: 2)     |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x2 | 6346.00 (batch: 8)     | 6182.59 (batch: 4)     | 5772.91 (batch: 2)     |
| (full_rank) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x4 | 12688.44 (batch: 8)    | 12249.74 (batch: 4)    | 11463.46 (batch: 2)    |
| (lora) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x1      | 4079.28 (batch: 8)     | 3682.15 (batch: 4)     | 3528.93 (batch: 2)     |
| (lora) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x2      | 7182.97 (batch: 8)     | 6955.58 (batch: 4)     | 6452.96 (batch: 2)     |
| (lora) NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB x4      | 14299.47 (batch: 8)    | 13834.43 (batch: 4)    | 12769.23 (batch: 2)    |

We provide the tools for evaluating the throughput on different context windows and different hardware/model configuration. Refer to the profiling folder in this repository to get started.
